Vpp video game hackathon (#49)
Vandebron/tech-blog: public/posts/vandebron-the-video-game.md

A problem our team, VPP [Virtual Power Plant], deal with on a daily basis.
What emerged was an interactive game designed to educate players about the complexities of energy grid management in a fun and manageable way, 
though debatable if it is fun or well-balanced, was a hackathon project after all.

<video autoplay muted loop controls width="640" height="360">
  <source src="../images/game-start.mp4" type="video/mp4">
  Your browser does not support the video tag.
</video>

Let’s dive into the vision, mechanics, and what we hope players take away from this experience.

### Vision: Educate Through Play
Our goal was to create more than just a game. We envisioned a tool that serves as an onboarding experience, 
not just for our colleagues, but also anyone interested in the energy transition.

To realize this vision we chose to go with Godot as our game engine of choice. 
An open-source game engine that is a super fun and fantastic tool that allowed us to quickly prototype and iterate on our ideas and feedback.

### The Core Gameplay Loop: Keeping the Grid Balanced

> In this game, your primary goal is to maintain the energy grid within the "goldilocks zone" not too much power, not too little. The longer you can achieve this, the better!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this game, your primary goal is to keep the energy grid frequency within the "goldilocks zone", i.e. not too much power production, not too little. The longer you can maintain this balance, the better!
```

#### Key Concepts:

> - Keeping within the goldilocks zone, energy in must match energy out. Fall outside the goldilocks zone, and the grid becomes unstable. If it is unstable for too long, then it's game over.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Keeping within the goldilocks zone:** energy production must match energy demand. Fall outside the goldilocks zone, and the grid becomes unstable. If it is unstable for too long, then it's game over.
```

> - Keeping up with demand: Houses are automatically built over time, mimicking real-life construction. It’s up to the player to manually add renewable energy assets, like wind turbines, solar panels, and batteries, to continue to meet demand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Keeping up with demand:** Houses are automatically built over time, mimicking real-life construction. It’s up to the player to meet this increasing demand by manually adding renewable energy assets, like wind turbines, solar panels, and batteries.
```

> - Forecasting: Players can use forecasts to anticipate and plan for energy production challenges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Forecasting:** Players can use weather forecasts to anticipate and plan for energy production challenges. Too much wind? Better disable some wind turbines for the time being.
```

> - Curtailment: Too much energy? Players must decide when to turn off assets to avoid overproduction. This introduces the concept of curtailment and highlights the work often required in grid management, due to not being able to store the excess energy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Curtailment:** Too much energy? Players must decide when to turn off assets to avoid overproduction. This introduces the concept of curtailment and highlights the work often required in grid management, due to not being able to store the excess energy.
```

> - The Main Goal: A 100% Green Energy Grid, 100% of the time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **The Main Goal:** A 100% Green Energy Grid, 100% of the time.
```

> What does success look like in the game? Maintaining the grid with 100% green power for as long as possible, via strategically managing energy production and curtailment to ensure sustainability.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
What does success look like in the game? Maintaining the grid with 100% green power for as long as possible, via strategically managing energy production and curtailment to ensure sustainability. Much like in the actual energy transition, there is no winning. You just avoid losing indefinitely.
```

Author: Haha don't think I will include that 😂

Reviewer: Hahaha yeah please don't
